Section 1: Welcome
Welcome to the course!
This first section contains a brief overview of the class. There are no lecture notes for this
first section as it’s an introduction to the rest of the class. This section is still important
though, so make sure to watch the lecture videos to learn how to get the most out of the
class.
Enjoy!
Section 2: Installing and Exploring Node.js
Lesson 1: Section Intro
In this section, you’re going to set up your machine for the rest of the course. This includes
installing Node.js and Visual Studio Code. This section also dives into what Node.js is, how
Node.js works, and why Node.js is a tool worth learning.
Lesson 2: Installing Node.js and Visual Studio Code
In this lesson, you’ll install Node.js and Visual Studio Code. Both are free, open source,
and available for all operating system. They’re the only tools needed to get started with
Node!
Below are links to both tools. Take a moment to install them before continuing on with the
class.
Links
• Node.js
• Visual Studio Code
Lesson 3: What is Node.js?
In this lesson, you’ll explore what Node.js is. This includes a brief tour of the V8 JavaScript
engine, non-blocking I/O, and more!
Version 1.0 9
This lesson contains a presentation that covers what Node.js is. There are no notes for
presentation lectures. Please refer to the video for details.
Lesson 4: Why Should I Use Node.js?
Why should you use Node.js? In this lesson, you’ll learn what makes Node.js a tool worth
using.
This lesson contains a presentation that covers the major advantages of Node.js. There
are no notes for presentation lectures. Please refer to the video for details.
Lesson 5: Your First Node.js Script
It’s time. In this lesson, you’ll be creating and running your very first Node.js app.
Creating a Script
Node.js scripts are created with the js file extension. Remember that Node.js is not a
programming language. All the code in this course is JavaScript code, which is why the js
extension is used.
Below is an example script stored in a file named index.js.
console.log('Hello Node.js!')
Running a Script
You can run a Node.js script using the node command. Open up a new terminal window
and navigate to the directory where the script lives. From the terminal, you can use the
node command to provide the path to the script that should run. You can see an example
of this command in the terminal below.
$ node index.js
Hello Node.js!
When a Node.js script calls console.log, the logged values will show up in the terminal.
This is a great way to get output from your Node.js application